
{{Short description|Third generation of BMW X1}}
{{Use British English|date=September 2023}}
{{Infobox automobile
| name = BMW X1
| image = 2022 BMW X1 sDrive18d M Sport MHEV Automatic 2.0.jpg
| caption =
| manufacturer = BMW
| aka = BMW iX1 (electric)
| production = October 2022 – present
| model_years = 2023–2025
| assembly = {{ubl
  | Germany: Regensburg
  | Thailand: Rayong (BMW Thailand)
  | Indonesia: Jakarta (Gaya Motor)
  | Malaysia: Kulim, Kedah (Inokom)
  | India: Chennai
  | China: Tiexi, Shenyang (BBA)
  }}
| designer = Jacek Pepłowski
| class = Subcompact luxury crossover SUV
| body_style = 5-door SUV
| layout = {{ubl
  | Front-engine, front-wheel-drive
  | Front-engine, all-wheel-drive (xDrive)
  | Front-motor, front-wheel-drive (iX1 eDrive20)
  | Dual-motor, four-wheel-drive (iX1 xDrive30)
  }}
| platform = BMW UKL2 platform
| related = {{ubl
  | BMW X2 (U10)
  | BMW 2 Series Active Tourer (U06)
  | Mini Countryman (U25)
}}
| engine = {{ubl
  | '''Petrol:'''
  | 1.5 L ''B38'' turbo I3
  | '''Petrol hybrid:'''
  | 2.0 L ''B48'' turbo I4 mild hybrid
  | '''Petrol plug-in hybrid:'''
  | 1.5&nbsp;L ''B38A15M0'' turbo I3
  | '''Diesel hybrid:'''
  | 2.0 L ''B47'' twin-turbo I4 mild hybrid
  }}
| motor = {{collapsible list|framestyle=border:none; padding:0;
  | 1 = {{convert|14|kW|PS hp|0|abbr=on}} 48V power booster (MHEV)
  | 2 = {{convert|81|kW|PS hp|0|abbr=on}} permanent-magnet synchronous motor (X1 xDrive25e PHEV)
  | 3 = {{convert|130|kW|PS hp|0|abbr=on}} permanent-magnet synchronous motor (X1 xDrive30e PHEV)
  |  4 = 2x BMW eDrive 5.0 M170SF/M170SR permanently excited synchronous motors (PSM) (iX1)
  }}
| powerout = {{collapsible list|framestyle=border:none; padding:0;
  | 1 = {{convert|90|kW|PS hp|0|abbr=on}} (X1 sDrive16i)
  | 2 = {{convert|100|kW|PS hp|0|abbr=on}} (X1 sDrive18i)
  | 3 = {{convert|160|kW|PS hp|0|abbr=on}} (X1 xDrive23i)
  | 4 = {{convert|183|kW|PS hp|0|abbr=on}} (X1 xDrive25e)
  | 5 = {{convert|240|kW|PS hp|0|abbr=on}} (X1 xDrive30e)
  | 6 = {{convert|110|kW|PS hp|0|abbr=on}} (X1 sDrive18d)
  | 7 = {{convert|145|kW|PS hp|0|abbr=on}} (X1 xDrive23d)
  | 8 = {{convert|233|kW|PS hp|0|abbr=on}} (iX1 xDrive30)
  }}|
| transmission = {{ubl
  | 7-speed DCT wet Getrag 7DCT300
  | Single-speed automatic (iX1)
}}
| wheelbase = {{ubl
  | {{convert|2692|mm|1|abbr=on}}
  | {{convert|2802|mm|in|1|abbr=on}} (LWB)
  }}
| length = {{ubl
  | {{convert|4500|mm|in|1|abbr=on}}
  | {{convert|4505|mm|in|1|abbr=on}} (M35i)
  | {{convert|4616|mm|in|1|abbr=on}} (LWB)
  }}
| battery = {{ubl
 | 16.3 kWh lithium-ion (PHEV)
 | 64.7 kWh lithium-ion (iX1)
 }}
| width = {{convert|1845|mm|in|1|abbr=on}}
| height = {{convert|1642|mm|in|1|abbr=on}}
| weight = {{convert|1500|-|1690|kg|lb|0|abbr=on}}
| predecessor = BMW X1 (F48)
| successor =
| sp = uk
| model_code = U11<br />U12 (LWB)
}}

The third generation of the BMW X1 consists of the '''U11''' (short wheelbase) and the '''U12''' (long wheelbase) subcompact luxury crossover SUVs. Continuing in the way of the previous generation, this model is based on the modular UKL2 platform, which categorises compact, front-wheel drive based vehicles such as the 2 Series Active Tourer multi-purpose vehicle and the Mini Countryman crossover SUV. The U11 offers a range of petrol, diesel, plug-in hybrid, and battery electric models. Specific petrol and diesel models utilize a mild hybrid powertrain.

Undifferentiated from the previous generation, front-wheel drive models are marketed ''sDrive'', whereas all-wheel drive models are marketed as ''xDrive''. The vehicle measures {{convert|4500|mm|in|1|abbr=on}}, which is {{cvt|61|mm}} longer than its predecessor. Long wheelbase models are marketed exclusively in the Chinese market, and is currently {{convert|4616|mm|in|1|abbr=on}}, which is {{cvt|51|mm}} longer than the previous LWB model.

== Overview ==
The third-generation X1 was revealed on 1 June 2022, and launched in October 2022 for select markets. Officially longer than the F48 and E84, the U11 is roughly 70mm shorter than the first-generation BMW X3. BMW predicts 41 per cent of the X1s will be petrol models, while 31 per cent will be battery electric, leaving the remainder to be the plug-in hybrid and diesel.

An M Sport package is available that adds adaptive suspension (available for the first time on the X1), a lower ride height, and interior and exterior styling elements. The package also includes sport seats and launch control with paddle shifters on the M-Sport steering wheel.

In June 2023, the M35i xDrive was announced. The M35i xDrive uses 2.0-litre I4 turbocharged engine which generates {{convert|300|hp|kW PS|0|abbr=on}} / {{convert|400|Nm|kgm lbft|abbr=on|sigfig=3}} of power and torque respectively. For selected countries and the United States, it generates an additional {{convert|17|hp|kW PS|0|abbr=on}}. It accelerates from {{convert|0-60|mph|km/h|0|abbr=on}} in 5.4 seconds and its top speed is limited to {{convert|250|km/h|mph|0|abbr=on}}. Deliveries for the United States begin in October 2023 while deliveries for the rest of the world begin in November 2023.



== Features ==
Heated front seats are available on the sDrive18i, as well as a heated steering wheel which is available via a subscription on the BMW ConnectedDrive store. For the X1 sold in the US, the optional Active Seats with Lumbar Support includes massaging seat function for both front seats. Massaging seat intensity and timer can only be controlled from the touchscreen. Models in the US receive dual-zone automatic climate control, ambient interior lighting, and a power liftgate. A panoramic sunroof is part of the Convenience package.

BMW has introduced the new, dual-screen "Curved Display" onto the X1, which combines a 10.25-inch digital dial display, and a high-definition 10.7-inch infotainment screen which run the eighth generation BMW iDrive infotainment system. Navigation, Apple CarPlay, Android Auto, and the Sirius XM satellite radio is standard for all models. Wireless charging is standard on the Convenience package. For the Premium package, the X1 receives Harman Kardon audio system, 360° camera, and a head-up display.

Safety systems consist of: the Driving Assistant Professional which maintains speed, lane, and distance, Parking Assistant Plus, which conveniences parking in tighter spots, and the Reversing Assistant, which remembers steering movements for the previous 50 metres and can automatically return the vehicle precisely to the previously travelled path.<ref name=BMWenAU/>

Wheel sizes in the US range from 19- to 20-inch, however in Australia, sizes range from 18- to 19-inch.

== Markets ==
=== Europe ===
The X1 arrived in Europe in late 2022 which includes all models except the sDrive16i.

=== Australia ===
The X1 had arrived in Australia in the final quarter of 2022 with sDrive18i and xDrive20i models. Packages consist of the Enhancement Package, available on the sDrive18i and xDrive20i, and the M Sport Package, available only on the xDrive20i.

=== North America ===
The X1 arrived in the US in the final quarter of 2022, for the 2023 model year. Initially, the lineup consisted only of the xDrive28i, but in 2024 the M35i was added. All models use an all-wheel drive layout. Packages include the Premium and Convenience.

=== China ===
The X1 in China is sold exclusively as the long wheelbase U12 model. The models include the sDrive18Li, sDrive20Li, and xDrive20Li, as well as the battery electric xDrive30L. The front-wheel-drive iX1, the 'eDrive25L', is scheduled for March 2024.

=== India ===
The X1 was launched in India on 28 January 2023, and is locally manufactured at BMW’s Chennai factory. Both petrol and diesel engines are available.

The electric BMW X1, iX1, was launched in India on September 28, 2023, priced at ₹ 66.90 lakh. At the Bharat Mobility Show 2025 on January 17, 2025, BMW introduced a long-wheelbase, locally assembled version of the electric SUV, priced at ₹ 49 lakh.

=== Thailand ===
The X1 was launched in Thailand on 28 February 2023 with the sole sDrive18i model. Later the xDrive30e model was added in 22 May 2023, and the sDrive20i model has also been added in 30 June 2023.

The electric BMW iX1 eDrive20L was launched in Thailand on 3 July 2025, Imported from China.

== Powertrain ==
Models for specific Asian and African countries start at the sDrive16i model which uses a front-wheel drive layout, and has an output of output of {{cvt|122|hp}} and {{cvt|230|Nm}}. For most countries, models start at the sDrive18i, which has an output of {{cvt|136|hp}} and {{cvt|230|Nm}}, and the sDrive20i which has an output of {{cvt|170|hp}} and {{cvt|240|Nm}}. Both models use a {{cvt|1499|cc|L|1|abbr=on}} B38 inline-three turbocharged engine. The xDrive23i uses a B48 inline-four turbocharged mild hybrid powertrain, and uses an all-wheel drive layout. It has an output of {{cvt|218|hp}} and {{cvt|320|Nm}}. Exclusive to North American markets is the xDrive28i, which utilizes a variant of the B48 that makes {{cvt|241|hp}} and {{cvt|295|lbft}} of torque and is only available in AWD.

Diesel models consist of the sDrive18d, which has an output of {{cvt|150|hp|0}} and {{cvt|360|Nm|0}}, the xDrive20d, which has an output of {{cvt|163|hp}} and {{cvt|360|Nm|0}}, and the xDrive23d which has an output of {{cvt|211|hp}} and {{cvt|400|Nm|0}}. All diesel models use a B47 twin turbo inline-four engine. PHEV models consist of the xDrive25e which has an output of {{cvt|245|hp}} and {{cvt|230|Nm|0}}, and the xDrive30e with an output of {{cvt|326|hp}} and {{cvt|494|Nm}} which both use a B38 engine inline-three turbocharged engine, combined with a permanent-magnet synchronous motor.<ref name=CI/>

Mild hybrid models utilize a 48-volt mild hybrid which includes an electric motor/power-booster rated at {{cvt|19|hp}} and {{cvt|55|Nm}}. The mild hybrid system also features a 20 Ah battery in the luggage compartment, which was added to increase efficiency and power delivery.

For plug-in hybrid models, charging via an AC charger (using a Type 2 connector) can handle a capacity of 7.4 kilowatts will take a total of 2.5 hours, down from 3.2 hours. Because of the fifth generation BMW eDrive technology, PHEV models receive more fully-electric range compared to the previous generation. 25e PHEV model, the WLTP-rated range extends from {{cvt|71|-|83|km}}. For the 30e PHEV, the WLTP-rated range extends from {{cvt|70|-|82|km}}.<ref name=TechData/>

All models except the iX1 use a 7-speed Steptronic automatic transmission.
{| class="wikitable"
!Type
!Model
!Engine code
!Displacement
! width="17%" |Power
! width="17%" |Torque
!Combined system output
!Electric motor
!Battery
!Top speed
!{{cvt|0-100|kph}}
!Transmission
!Layout
!{{abbr|Cal.|Calendar}} years
|-
!Petrol
|sDrive16i
|''B38''
|{{convert|1499|cc|L|1|abbr=on}} I3 turbo
|{{convert|91|kW|hp PS|0|abbr=on}} @&nbsp;4,400-6,500&nbsp;rpm
|{{cvt|230|Nm|kgm lbft|sigfig=3}} @&nbsp;1,500-4,000&nbsp;rpm
| -
| -
| -
| {{cvt|200|kph|0}}
| 10.5 sec
| rowspan="15" |7-speed Steptronic automatic
|FWD
| rowspan="3" |2023–present
|-
! rowspan="2" |Petrol
| rowspan="2" |sDrive18i
| rowspan="2" |''B38''
| rowspan="2" |{{convert|1499|cc|L|1|abbr=on}} I3 turbo
|{{convert|100|kW|hp PS|0|abbr=on}} @&nbsp;4,400-6,500&nbsp;rpm
|{{cvt|230|Nm|kgm lbft|sigfig=3}} @&nbsp;1,500-4,000&nbsp;rpm
| -
| -
| -
| {{cvt|208|kph}}
| 9.2 sec
| rowspan="2" |FWD
|-
|{{convert|115|kW|hp PS|0|abbr=on}} @&nbsp;4,900-6,500&nbsp;rpm
|{{cvt|230|Nm|kgm lbft|sigfig=3}} @&nbsp;1,500-4,600&nbsp;rpm
| -
| -
| -
|{{cvt|215|kph}}
|9 sec
|-
!Petrol mild hybrid
|sDrive20i
|''B38''
|{{convert|1499|cc|L|1|abbr=on}} I3 turbo
|{{convert|125|kW|hp PS|0|abbr=on}} @&nbsp;4,700-6,500&nbsp;rpm
---- Motor: {{convert|14|kW|hp PS|0|abbr=on}}
|{{cvt|240|Nm|kgm lbft|sigfig=3}} @&nbsp;1,500-4,000&nbsp;rpm
---- Motor: {{cvt|55|Nm|kgm lbft|sigfig=3}}
| -
| rowspan="2" | 48{{Nbsp}}V power booster
| rowspan="2" | 20{{Nbsp}}Ah rear battery
| {{cvt|216|kph}}
| 8.3 sec
|FWD
|2023–present
|-
!Petrol mild hybrid
|xDrive23i
|''B48''
|{{convert|1998|cc|L|1|abbr=on}} I4 turbo
|{{convert|160|kW|hp PS|0|abbr=on}} @&nbsp;5,000-6,500&nbsp;rpm
---- Motor: {{convert|14|kW|hp PS|0|abbr=on}}
|{{cvt|320|Nm|kgm lbft|sigfig=3}} @&nbsp;1,500-4,000&nbsp;rpm
---- Motor: {{cvt|55|Nm|kgm lbft|sigfig=3}}
| -
| {{cvt|233|kph}}
| 7.1 sec
| rowspan="2" |AWD
|2023–present
|-
!Petrol
|M35i
|''B48''
|{{convert|1998|cc|L|1|abbr=on}} I4 turbo
|{{convert|221|kW|hp PS|0|abbr=on}}*  @&nbsp;5,750-6,500&nbsp;rpm
|{{cvt|400|Nm|kgm lbft|sigfig=3}} @&nbsp;2,000-4,500&nbsp;rpm
| -
| -
| -
| {{cvt|250|kph|0}}
| 5.4 sec
| rowspan="2" |2024–present
|-
! rowspan="2" |Diesel
| rowspan="2" |sDrive18d
| rowspan="2" |''B47''
| rowspan="2" |{{convert|1995|cc|L|1|abbr=on}} I4 turbo
| rowspan="2" |{{convert|110|kW|hp PS|0|abbr=on}} @&nbsp;3,750-4,000&nbsp;rpm
| rowspan="2" |{{cvt|360|Nm|kgm lbft|sigfig=3}} @&nbsp;1,500-2,500&nbsp;rpm
| rowspan="2" | -
| rowspan="2" | -
| rowspan="2" | -
| rowspan="4" | {{cvt|210|kph|0}}
| rowspan="2" | 8.9 sec
| rowspan="2" |FWD
|-
| rowspan="2" |2023–present
|-
! rowspan="2" |Diesel mild hybrid
| rowspan="2" |xDrive20d
| rowspan="2" |''B47''
| rowspan="2" |{{convert|1995|cc|L|1|abbr=on}} I4 turbo
| rowspan="2" |{{convert|120|kW|hp PS|0|abbr=on}} @&nbsp;3,750-4,000&nbsp;rpm
---- Motor: {{convert|14|kW|hp PS|0|abbr=on}}
| rowspan="2" |{{cvt|360|Nm|kgm lbft|sigfig=3}} @&nbsp;1,500-2,500&nbsp;rpm
---- Motor: {{cvt|55|Nm|kgm lbft|sigfig=3}}
| rowspan="2" | -
| rowspan="4" | 48{{Nbsp}}V power booster
| rowspan="4" | 20{{Nbsp}}Ah rear battery
| rowspan="2" | 8.6 sec
| rowspan="7" |AWD
|-
| rowspan="2" |2023–present
|-
! rowspan="2" |Diesel mild hybrid
| rowspan="2" |xDrive23d
| rowspan="2" |''B47''
| rowspan="2" |{{convert|1995|cc|L|1|abbr=on}} I4 turbo
| rowspan="2" |{{convert|155|kW|hp PS|0|abbr=on}} @&nbsp;4,000&nbsp;rpm
---- Motor: {{convert|14|kW|hp PS|0|abbr=on}}
| rowspan="2" |{{cvt|400|Nm|kgm lbft|sigfig=3}} @&nbsp;1,500-2,750&nbsp;rpm
---- Motor: {{cvt|55|Nm|kgm lbft|sigfig=3}}
| rowspan="2" | -
| rowspan="2" | {{cvt|225|kph|0}}
| rowspan="2" | 7.4 sec
|-
| rowspan="2" |2023–present
|-
! rowspan="2" |Petrol plug-in hybrid
| rowspan="2" |xDrive25e
| rowspan="3" |''B38A15M0''
| rowspan="3" |{{convert|1499|cc|L|1|abbr=on}} I3 turbo
| rowspan="2" |Engine: {{convert|100|kW|hp PS|0|abbr=on}} @&nbsp;4,400-6,500&nbsp;rpm
---- Motor: {{convert|80|kW|hp PS|0|abbr=on}}
| rowspan="2" | Engine: {{cvt|230|Nm|kgm lbft|sigfig=3}} @&nbsp;1,500-4,400&nbsp;rpm
---- Motor: {{cvt|247|Nm|kgm lbft|sigfig=3}}
| rowspan="2" | {{convert|180|kW|hp PS|0|abbr=on}}
| rowspan="3" | Permanent-magnet synchronous
| rowspan="3" | 16.3 kWh lithium-ion
| rowspan="2" | {{cvt|200|kph|0}}
| rowspan="2" | 6.8 sec
|-
| rowspan="1" |2023–present
|-

!Petrol plug-in hybrid
|xDrive30e
|Engine: {{convert|110|kW|hp PS|0|abbr=on}} @&nbsp;4,700-6,500&nbsp;rpm
---- Motor: {{convert|130|kW|hp PS|0|abbr=on}}
| Engine: {{cvt|230|Nm|kgm lbft|sigfig=3}} @&nbsp;1,500-4,400&nbsp;rpm
---- Motor: {{cvt|247|Nm|kgm lbft|sigfig=3}}
| {{convert|240|kW|hp PS|0|abbr=on}}
| {{cvt|205|kph}}
| 5.4 sec
|2023–present
|-
|}

<nowiki>*</nowiki> {{cvt|233|kW}} for selected countries such as the US

== BMW iX1 ==
The '''BMW iX1''' is a battery electric version of the X1 U11. The iX1 was released on 11 November 2022 as the xDrive30. It features a 64.7&nbsp;kWh lithium-ion battery, and dual motors placed at each axle for an all-wheel drive layout. Its power and torque output is rated at {{convert|309|hp|kW PS|0|abbr=on}} and {{convert|494|Nm|kgm lbft|abbr=on|sigfig=3}} respectively.

In September 2023, a front-wheel drive model, known as the "eDrive20" was introduced. It features one motor, and has an output of {{convert|201|hp|kW PS|0|abbr=on}} and {{convert|247|Nm|kgm lbft|abbr=on|sigfig=3}}. Its battery remains a 64.7&nbsp;kWh lithium-ion. All iX1 models feature an optional cyan exterior trim, with a drag coefficient of 0.26. Top speed for the eDrive20 is {{convert|170|km/h|mph|0|abbr=on}}, however for the xDrive30, its top speed is {{convert|180|km/h|mph|0|abbr=on}}. Charging for the xDrive30 using an AC charger (0-100%) takes 6.5&nbsp;hours with a charging capacity of 11&nbsp;kW. Using a DC fast-charger, charging for the xDrive30 (0-80%) takes 29&nbsp;minutes with a maximum rate of 130&nbsp;kW.
{| class="wikitable"
! colspan="14" |iX1
|-
!Type
!Model
!Electric motor
!Electric motor code
!Battery
!Range
!Power
!Torque
!Combined system output
!Top speed
!{{cvt|0-100|kph}}
!{{abbr|Trans.|Transmission}}
!Layout
!{{abbr|Cal.|Calendar}} years
|-
!Battery electric
|eDrive20
| 1x ''BMW eDrive''
| N/A
| rowspan="2" | 64.7 kWh lithium-ion
| {{cvt|430|-|475|km}}<sup>WLTP</sup>
| {{convert|201|hp|kW PS|0|abbr=on}}
| {{cvt|247|Nm|kgm lbft|sigfig=3}}
| -
|{{cvt|170|kph}}
|8.6 sec
| rowspan="2" |Single-speed automatic
|FWD
|2023–present
|-
!Battery electric
|xDrive30
| 2x BMW eDrive 5.0
| M170SF (front)<br>M170SR (rear)
| {{cvt|417|-|440|km}}<sup>WLTP</sup>
| Front motor: {{convert|188|hp|kW PS|0|abbr=on}}
---- Rear motor: {{convert|188|hp|kW PS|0|abbr=on}}
| Front motor: {{cvt|247|Nm|kgm lbft|sigfig=3}}
----Rear motor: {{cvt|247|Nm|kgm lbft|sigfig=3}}
| {{convert|309|hp|kW PS|0|abbr=on}} / {{cvt|494|Nm|kgm lbft|sigfig=3}}
|{{cvt|180|kph}}
|5.6 sec
|AWD
|2022–present
|-
|}

== Safety ==
{{Euro NCAP|year=2022|overall_stars=5|adult_points=32.8|adult_percent=86|child_points=43.9|child_percent=89|pedestrian_points=41.1|pedestrian_percent=76|safety_percent=92|safety_points=14.8|reference=[https://cdn.euroncap.com/media/77923/euroncap-2022-bmw-x1-datasheet.pdf 2022 BMW X1 Euro NCAP test results]|description=BMW X1 X Line}}

