{{Short description|Battery electric hatchback}}
{{For|the smaller car marketed as the BYD Dolphin Mini or Dolphin Surf in some countries|BYD Seagull}}
{{Use British English|date=July 2024}}
{{Use dmy dates|date=June 2024}}
{{Infobox automobile
| name = BYD Dolphin
| image = 2021 BYD Dolphin EV (front).jpg
| alt = BYD Dolphin (Chinese spec)
| manufacturer = BYD Auto
| model_code = {{flatlist|
*EA1
*EM2E
}}
| aka =
| production = August 2021 – present
| assembly = {{ubl
  | China: Shenzhen, Guangdong; Changsha, Hunan
  | Thailand: Rayong (BYD Auto (Thailand), 2024–present)
}}
| designer = Under the lead of Wolfgang Egger
| class = {{ubl
  | Subcompact car (B, China; 2021–2025)
  | Compact car (C, Global; 2023–present)
  }}
| body_style = 5-door hatchback
| layout = Front-motor, front-wheel-drive
| platform = e-Platform 3.0
| related = {{unbulleted list
  | BYD Seagull
  | BYD Yuan Up / Atto 2
  | BYD Yuan Plus / Atto 3
  }}
| motor = Permanent magnet synchronous
| powerout = {{unbulleted list
  | {{convert|70|kW|PS hp|abbr=on|0}}
  | {{convert|130|kW|PS hp|abbr=on|0}}
  | {{convert|150|kW|PS hp|abbr=on|0}} (outside China)
  }}
| battery = {{ubl
  | 30.72–60.48&nbsp;kWh BYD Blade LFP
  }}
| electric_range = {{unbulleted list
  | {{convert|301|km|mi|abbr=on}}  (NEDC, 30.72 kWh)
  | {{convert|401|–|405|km|mi|abbr=on}} (NEDC, 44.928 kWh)
  | {{convert|427|km|mi|abbr=on}} (WLTP, European 60.48 kWh)
  }}
| charging = {{unbulleted list
  | '''AC:'''
  | 7.4&nbsp;kW
  | 11&nbsp;kW (Europe, except base model)
  | '''DC:'''
  | 40&nbsp;kW (30.7 kWh, China)
  | 60–65&nbsp;kW (44.9 kWh)
  | 70&nbsp;kW (50.25 kWh)
  | 88&nbsp;kW (global)
  | '''V2L'''<!--:
  | ?&nbsp;kW (global)-->
  }}
| wheelbase = {{convert|2700|mm|in|1|abbr=on}}
| length = {{unbulleted list
  | {{convert|4070|–|4150|mm|in|1|abbr=on}} (China; 2021–2025)
  | {{convert|4280|mm|in|1|abbr=on}} (China, 2025–present)
  | {{convert|4290|mm|in|1|abbr=on}} (global / Dolphin Plus)
  }}
| width = {{convert|1770|mm|in|1|abbr=on}}
| height = {{convert|1570|mm|in|1|abbr=on}}
| weight = {{convert|1285|–|1658|kg|lb|1|abbr=on}}
| predecessor =
| successor =
}}

The '''BYD Dolphin''' ({{lang-zh|s=比亚迪海豚|t=|p=Bǐyǎdí Hǎitún|c=}}) is a battery electric hatchback produced by the Chinese manufacturer BYD Auto since 2021. A subcompact (B-segment) hatchback, the Dolphin is positioned above the Seagull in the Chinese market and part of BYD's Ocean Series.

The Dolphin has been exported to overseas markets such as Europe, Australia and Southeast Asia since 2023 with lengthened dimensions to satisfy more stringent crash safety standards, and placing it in the compact or C-segment space.

== Overview ==
During Auto Shanghai in April 2021, BYD presented a pre-production prototype of the Dolphin called BYD EA1 Concept, while also announcing a modernized design language and company logo. The company also introduced presented a new generation of electric car platform called the e-Platform 3.0, which offer more efficient performance and range.

The production model was presented three months later as the BYD Dolphin, and became available in August 2021. The Dolphin adopts BYD's Marine Aesthetics design language that is also used in other Ocean Series models, a one-box side silhouette devised by head of BYD design team Wolfgang Egger. The Dolphin was the first production model to feature the new BYD logo.

The interior of the Dolphin features a rotatable 12.8-inch infotainment screen, and a full 5-inch LCD instrument panel. It comes standard with the LFP blade battery in varying capacities.

The modified version destined for the global market was introduced in 2023. For most export markets, the Dolphin was lengthened by approximately {{convert|20|cm|in|1|abbr=on}} in order to accommodate a new front-end crash structure, which was designed to achieve a five-star Australian ANCAP safety rating. The global model received different front and rear bumpers, front hood and wing fenders that extended its overhang, which increased its length to {{convert|4290|mm|in|1|abbr=on}} and placing it as a C-segment car.

On 22 September 2023, the 500,000th Dolphin rolled off the assembly line after 25 months in production.

=== 2025 facelift ===
The Dolphin received a major update in March 2025 for the Chinese market. The model received a redesigned front and rear design which increased its length by {{convert|130|mm|in|1|abbr=on}}, revised dashboard design, and a steering-mounted gear selector. It is also equipped with BYD's latest advanced driver assistance system marketed as God's Eye C and DiPilot 100 as standard.



== Powertrain ==

=== China / Latin America ===
The specifications below corresponds to the {{convert|4.1|m|in|1|abbr=out|adj=on}}-long Dolphin marketed in China and some export markets such as Latin America.
{| class="wikitable" style="text-align:left; font-size:80%; width="
! rowspan="2" width="10%" |Battery
! rowspan="2" width="5%" |Layout
! rowspan="2" width="12%" |Electric motor
! rowspan="2" width="10%" |Power
! rowspan="2" width="18%" |Torque
! rowspan="2" width="9%" |{{convert|0–100|km/h|mph|0|abbr=on}} (claimed)
! colspan="3" |Range (claimed)
! rowspan="2" width="10%" |Calendar years
! rowspan="2" |Note
|-
! width="5%" |CLTC
! width="5%" |NEDC
! width="5%" |WLTP
|-
|30.72&nbsp;kWh LFP blade battery
| rowspan="4" |FWD
| rowspan="4" |Permanent magnet synchronous motor
|{{convert|70|kW|hp|0|abbr=on}}
|{{convert|180|Nm|kgm lbft||abbr=on|sigfig=3}}
|10.5 seconds
|{{convert|301|km|mi|0|abbr=on}}
|
|
|2021–2022
|
|-
|44.9&nbsp;kWh LFP blade battery
|{{convert|70|kW|hp|0|abbr=on}}
|{{convert|180|Nm|kgm lbft||abbr=on|sigfig=3}}
|10.9 seconds
|{{convert|420|km|mi|0|abbr=on}}
|{{convert|405|km|mi|0|abbr=on}}
|
|2021–present
|Exported to Latin America
|-
|44.9&nbsp;kWh LFP blade battery
|{{convert|130|kW|hp|0|abbr=on}}
|{{convert|290|Nm|kgm lbft||abbr=on|sigfig=3}}
|7.5 seconds
|{{convert|401|km|mi|0|abbr=on}}
|
|
|2021–present
|
|-
|60.48&nbsp;kWh LFP blade battery
|{{convert|150|kW|hp|0|abbr=on}}
|{{convert|310|Nm|kgm lbft||abbr=on|sigfig=3}}
|
|{{convert|520|km|mi|0|abbr=on}}
|
|
|2024–present
|Available with the Dolphin Champion Edition
|-
! colspan="11" |References:
|}

=== Global ===
The global, {{convert|4290|mm|in|1|abbr=on}}-long Dolphin became available in 2023 in Europe, and right-hand drive markets such as Australia, Thailand and Malaysia. The global version is also sold in Latin America as the Dolphin Plus. For the Extended Range version, it receives a more sophisticated independent multi-link rear suspension setup replacing torsion beam.
{| class="wikitable" style="text-align:left; font-size:80%; width="
! rowspan="2" |Type
! rowspan="2" width="10%" |Battery
! rowspan="2" width="5%" |Layout
! rowspan="2" width="12%" |Electric motor
! rowspan="2" width="10%" |Power
! rowspan="2" width="18%" |Torque
! rowspan="2" width="9%" |{{convert|0–100|km/h|mph|0|abbr=on}} (claimed)
! colspan="2" |Range (claimed)
! rowspan="2" width="10%" |Calendar years
|-
! width="5%" |NEDC
! width="5%" |WLTP
|-
! rowspan="3" |Standard Range
|44.9&nbsp;kWh LFP blade battery
| rowspan="4" |FWD
| rowspan="4" |Permanent magnet synchronous motor
|{{convert|70|kW|hp|0|abbr=on}}
|{{convert|180|Nm|kgm lbft||abbr=on|sigfig=3}}
|12.3 seconds
|{{convert|410|km|mi|0|abbr=on}}
|{{convert|340|km|mi|0|abbr=on}}
|2023–present
|-
|44.9&nbsp;kWh LFP blade battery
|{{convert|130|kW|hp|0|abbr=on}}
|{{convert|260|Nm|kgm lbft||abbr=on|sigfig=3}}
|7.5 seconds
|
|{{convert|315|km|mi|0|abbr=on}}
|2024–present
|-
|50.25&nbsp;kWh LFP blade battery
|{{convert|70|kW|hp|0|abbr=on}}
|{{convert|180|Nm|kgm lbft||abbr=on|sigfig=3}}
|12.3 seconds
|{{convert|435|km|mi|0|abbr=on}}
|
|2024–present (Thailand)
|-
!Extended Range
|60.48&nbsp;kWh LFP blade battery
|{{convert|150|kW|hp|0|abbr=on}}
|{{convert|310|Nm|kgm lbft||abbr=on|sigfig=3}}
|7.0 seconds
|{{convert|490|km|mi|0|abbr=on}}
|{{convert|427|km|mi|0|abbr=on}}
|2023–present
|-
! colspan="10" |References:
|}

== Markets ==

=== Asia ===

==== Brunei ====
The Dolphin has been launched in Brunei in 15 June 2024 and it was only offered in Dynamic Standard Range (44.9 kWh) in a single trim.

==== China ====
In China, the Dolphin is available in two versions and three trim levels. The Free and Fashion trim levels is equipped with a {{convert|70|kW|PS hp|0|abbr=on}} motor, while the Knight Edition has a more powerful {{convert|130|kW|PS hp|0|abbr=on}} motor. Previously, the Dolphin was available in a basic trim with a 30.72&nbsp;kWh blade battery, with a range of {{convert|301|km|mi|0|abbr=on}}. Between 2023 and 2024, all versions uses the same 44.9&nbsp;kWh blade battery. With the body kit equipped to the Knight Edition, the variant is {{convert|30|mm|in|1|abbr=on}} longer.

In September 2023, the Dolphin 500,000 Commemorative Edition was released to celebrate the production of the 500,000th Dolphin. It was available in two sub-variants, Pro and Plus.

In February 2024, the Dolphin Champion Edition went on sale as the 2024 model year. It received an independent multi-link rear suspension setup, a 60&nbsp;kWh battery option with a {{convert|150|kW|PS hp|0|abbr=on}} electric motor and a wireless charger, which were previously reserved for the global market version.

In February 2025, the Dolphin was facelifted with the new design front and rear with the length increased 4,280&nbsp;mm (168.5&nbsp;in).

==== Indonesia ====
The Dolphin was introduced in Indonesia in January 2024 alongside the Atto 3 and Seal, as part of BYD's entry to the Indonesian passenger car market. Sales price were announced at the 31st Indonesia International Motor Show in February 2024. It is available in two variants: the Dynamic Standard Range ({{convert|70|kW|PS hp|abbr=on|0}} and the Premium Extended Range ({{convert|150|kW|PS hp|abbr=on|0}}.

==== Japan ====
The Dolphin was launched in Japan in September 2023, with two variants: the Dolphin (44.9 kWh {{convert|70|kW|PS hp|abbr=on|0}} and the Dolphin Long Range (58.56 kWh {{convert|150|kW|PS hp|abbr=on|0}}.

==== Malaysia ====
The Dolphin was launched in Malaysia on 27 July 2023, as the second BYD model to be marketed in Malaysia, with deliveries started in August 2023. It is available in two variants: Dynamic Standard Range ({{convert|70|kW|PS hp|abbr=on|0}} and Premium Extended Range ({{convert|150|kW|PS hp|abbr=on|0}}.

==== Nepal ====
The Dolphin was launched in Nepal on 11 September 2023, by Cimex Inc., the authorized distributor. The electric hatchback features a 44.9 kWh battery with a range of up to 340&nbsp;km.

==== Thailand ====
In March 2023, the global right hand drive version of Dolphin was shown to the public for the first time as the Standard Range ({{convert|70|kW|PS hp|abbr=on|0}} with 44.9&nbsp;kWh blade battery) at the Bangkok International Motor Show 2023. Rever Automotive, BYD's Thailand distributor, introduced Standard Range 95 PS and Extended Range ({{convert|150|kW|PS hp|abbr=on|0}} with 60.48&nbsp;kWh blade battery) to the press at the end of June 2023.

In July 2024, the locally assembled model went on sale with a lower price. The Standard Range model received a larger 50.25&nbsp;kWh battery, increasing its NEDC-rated range to {{convert|435|km|mi|0|abbr=on}}. It also received faster DC charging capacity from 60&nbsp;kW to 70&nbsp;kW.

==== Vietnam ====
The Dolphin was introduced in Vietnam on 18 July 2024 alongside the Atto 3 and Seal, as part of BYD's entry in Vietnam. It is available in a sole GLX variant using the Standard Range 44.9 kWh powertrain.

=== Europe ===
The European version of the Dolphin was introduced in April 2023. As with the global specification, the European market Dolphin occupies the C-segment as it received different front and rear bumpers that extended its length to of {{convert|4290|mm|in|1|abbr=on}}. In addition, the powertrain of the European-spec Dolphin is upgraded. The car is powered by a {{convert|150|kW|PS hp|0|abbr=on}} front-wheel drive motor, paired with a 60.48&nbsp;kWh battery which is shared with the Atto 3.

=== Latin America ===

==== Brazil ====
The Dolphin was released in Brazil In July 2023. It is available in two models, which are Dolphin and the global market Dolphin Plus.

The Dolphin sold 6,812 units in Brazil in 2023, making it the best-selling electric car in the country.

==== Mexico ====
The Dolphin was launched in Mexico on 20 September 2023, as the fourth BYD model to be marketed in Mexico.

=== Oceania ===

==== Australia ====
In February 2022, BYD's Australian distributor, EVDirect, announced plans to sell the Dolphin in Australia. The Dolphin went on sale in Australia on 22 June 2023, with three grades: Dynamic, Premium and Sport. The Dynamic grade use the 44.9 kWh blade battery pack, while the Premium and Sport grades use the 60.48 kWh blade battery pack. The Dynamic was replaced by the Essential (44.9 kWh) as the entry-level trim for the Dolphin in January 2025.

==== New Zealand ====
In New Zealand, the Dolphin is available with two range variants: the Standard Range has a 44.9&nbsp;kWh blade battery with a WLTP range of {{convert|340|km|mi|abbr=on}} and the Extended Range carries a 60.48&nbsp;kWh blade battery, increasing the WLTP range to {{convert|427|km|mi|abbr=on}}.

=== South Africa ===
The Dolphin was launched in South Africa on 18 May 2024, with two variants: Standard Range (44.9 kWh) and Extended Range (60.48 kWh).

== Recall ==
On 30 September 2024, BYD recalled 96,714 Dolphin and Yuan Plus vehicles in China due to a fire risk. The affected vehicles were manufactured between November 2022 and December 2023. At the time, it was BYD's largest recall to date. The issue involves a defect in the production of the electric power steering column assembly (CEPS) controller. When the tool cover is closed, it may press against internal components, causing tiny cracks. Over time, these cracks may expand and lead to short circuits, overheating, or fires. BYD dealers would install insulation pads on the controllers to eliminate the safety risk.

== Safety ==
{{Euro NCAP|year=2023|description=BYD Dolphin (LHD)|adult_points=35.8|adult_percent=89|child_points=43|child_percent=87|pedestrian_percent=85|pedestrian_points=53.9|safety_points=14.4|safety_percent=79|reference=https://cdn.euroncap.com/media/82666/euroncap-2023-byd-dolphin-datasheet.pdf|reference_name=BYD Dolphin Test Results|overall_stars=5}}

== Awards ==
BYD Dolphin won the title of 'Best Small Electric Car' at the Carbuyer Best Car Awards 2024.

In March 2024, BYD Dolphin won the Japan EV of the Year 2023 award.

== Sales ==
{| class="wikitable"
! rowspan="2" |Year
! colspan="6" |Sales
! rowspan="2" |Total production
|-
!China
!Thailand
!Malaysia{{Efn-lr|Figures based on registration (Malaysia)}}
!Australia
!Brazil
!Indonesia
|-
|2021
|29,598
|
|
|
|
|
|
|-
|2022
|204,674
|
|
|
|
|
|205,417
|-
|2023
|299,708
|9,410
|1,313
|925
|6,812
|
|367,419
|-
|2024
|160,594
|13,386
|1,431
|2,116
|15,202
|1,186
|198,320
|}
{{notelist-lr}}
