{{Use British English|date=July 2024}}
{{Short description|Battery electric compact crossover SUV}}
{{Use dmy dates|date=May 2024}}
{{Infobox automobile
| name = Kia EV6
| image = 2021 Kia EV6 GT-Line S.jpg
| caption = Kia EV6 GT-Line (pre-facelift)
| manufacturer = Kia
| model_code = CV
| production = 2021–present
| model_years = 2022–present (North America)
| assembly = South Korea: Hwaseong (Autoland Hwasung)<br />United States: West Point, Georgia (KMMG)
| designer = {{unbulleted list
  | Lee Hyo-Sung and Choi Hong-Seok
}}
| class = Compact crossover SUV
| body_style = 5-door SUV
| layout = {{unbulleted list
  | Rear-motor, rear-wheel-drive
  | Dual-motor, all-wheel-drive
  }}
| platform = Hyundai E-GMP
| related = {{unbulleted list
  | Hyundai Ioniq 5
  | Hyundai Ioniq 6
  | Hyundai Ioniq 9
  | Kia EV9
  | Genesis GV60
  }}
| motor = Permanent magnet synchronous motor
| powerout = {{cvt|125-430|kW|PS hp|0|abbr=on}}
| transmission = Single-speed reduction gear
| battery = 58&nbsp;kWh or 77.4&nbsp;kWh or 84.0&nbsp;kWh battery nickel-cobalt-manganese lithium

<ref> {{Cite web |title=2025 Kia EV6 refresh teased
|url=https://www.caranddriver.com/news/a60670307/2025-kia-ev6-refresh-teased/
|access-date=2024-05-25 |website=Car and Driver |language=en}} </ref>
| electric_range = Up to {{convert|510|km|mi|0|abbr=on}}
| charging = {{unbulleted list
  | '''AC:'''
  <br> 11&nbsp;kW
  | '''DC:'''
 <br>180&nbsp;kW (58&nbsp;kWh battery)
 <br>240&nbsp;kW (77.4&nbsp;kWh battery)

  | '''Vehicle-to-load ({{abbr|V2L|Vehicle-To-Load}}):'''<br>1.9 kW (international)<br>3.6 kW (Europe)
  }}
| wheelbase = {{convert|2900|mm|in|1|abbr=on}}
| length = {{convert|4680-4695|mm|in|1|abbr=on}}
| width = {{convert|1880-1890|mm|in|1|abbr=on}}
| height = {{convert|1550|mm|in|1|abbr=on}}<br />{{convert|1545|mm|in|1|abbr=on}} (GT)
| weight = {{convert|1825-2090|kg|lb|0|abbr=on}}
}}

The '''Kia EV6''' ({{langx|ko|기아 EV6}}) is a battery electric compact crossover SUV produced by Kia. Introduced in March 2021, it is the first Kia dedicated electric vehicle, and the first model developed on the Electric Global Modular Platform (E-GMP) similar to the Hyundai Ioniq 5. It is also the first model to be named under the new nomenclature designated for a line of Kia electric cars, EV series, which will range from EV1 to EV9. The EV6 is the 2022 European Car of the Year.

== Overview ==
The EV6 was released on 2 August 2021 after a set of pictures were revealed on 15 March 2021. Developed under the codename ''CV'', it is the first Kia model based on the E-GMP electric car platform.

The GT model is claimed to have a {{convert|0|–|100|km/h|mph|abbr=on}} time in 3.5 seconds, with dual electric motors producing {{cvt|430|kW|PS hp|0}} of power and 740&nbsp;Nm of torque combined, Michelin Pilot Sport 4S tyres, a rear electronic limited-slip differential, electronically controlled suspension, and minor exterior and interior changes.

It features a panoramic curved display panel inside, which opens up more space while a controller for transition between infotainment and HVAC below the navigation screen and touch buttons for using heated seat as well as steering wheel further enhance driver usability. The EV6's boot space is {{cvt|520|L|cuft|sigfig=3}} (VDA standard) and it can be increased up to {{cvt|1,300|L|cuft|sigfig=3}} when the rear seats are folded. The crossover is claimed to be furnished with eco-friendly materials across the interior, fabric or artificial suede/leatherette seats, and ambient lighting. It's also available with an augmented reality head-up display, 360° camera option, remote controlled parking, along with safety technologies including Lane Follow Assist, Highway Driving Assist 2 (semi-autonomous adaptive cruise control) including auto lane changing, AEB collision avoidance, remote smart parking assist and Safe Exit Assist.



=== GT-Line ===


=== EV6 GT ===
The EV6 GT was released on 4 October 2022; it is a high-performance version of the EV6, supposed to go from zero to 100&nbsp;km/h in 3.5 seconds. The EV6 GT features four-piston calipers with a monoblock front wheel that improves size/performance over the base model, and a body strengthened with front strut ring and rear luggage floor reinforcement bars. There's also Michelin Pilot Sport 4S tyres, a rear electronic limited-slip differential, and electronically controlled suspension.

In addition, rack-driven power steering and variable gear ratio technology optimises steering response to speed, and GT Mode with RBM function that maximizes the use of regenerative braking and Kia's first Drift Mode are applied.

The design features GT-specific 21-inch wheels with contrasting neon green coloured brake calipers, vertical elements across the front Digital Tiger Nose Grille, front and rear bumpers, and a rear diffuser. The interior is equipped with unique sports bucket seats with neon green piping and stitching, artificial suede door cards, and a GT Mode button on the steering wheel.

However, compared to regular EV6 models, the EV6 GT does not come with ventilated seat functionality, electric seat adjustment, auto dip-down wing mirrors when reversing, and has less claimed driving range with higher energy consumption.


=== Facelift ===
The facelifted EV6 was revealed on 14 May 2024. Changes include new angular-designed LED headlights and daytime running lights, a redesigned front fascia, new alloy wheel designs, a revamped interior with a revised curved panoramic screen, a new steering wheel, a new fingerprint authentication system that allows registered drivers to power the electrics without the key, updated technological features and a new 84 kWh battery pack replaced the 77.4 kWh pack.

== Powertrains ==
{| class="wikitable collapsible" style="text-align:left; font-size:90%;"
!rowspan ="2"|Trim
!rowspan ="2"|Battery
!rowspan ="2"|Layout
!rowspan ="2"|Power
!rowspan ="2"|Torque
!rowspan ="2"|0–100&nbsp;km/h<br />(0-62&nbsp;mph)<br />(Official)
!rowspan ="2"|Top speed
!colspan ="4"|Charging time
|-
! AC 230V/10A<br />(2.3&nbsp;KW)<br />(0–100%)
! AC 230V/16A&nbsp;3P<br />(11&nbsp;KW)<br />(0–100%)
! DC Fast Charging<br />(50&nbsp;KW)<br />(0–80%)
! DC Fast Charging<br />(180&nbsp;KW)<br />(0–80%)
|-
|rowspan="2"|Standard Range
|rowspan="2" |58 kWh
|2WD
|{{convert|125|kW|PS hp|abbr=on|0}}
|{{convert|350|Nm|lbft|abbr=on|0}}
|8.5s
|rowspan=4|{{convert|185|km/h|mi/h|abbr=on}}
|rowspan=2|24 hr 40 min
|rowspan=2|6 hr
|rowspan=2|1 hr 3 min
|rowspan=5|18 min
|-
|4WD
|{{convert|173|kW|PS hp|abbr=on|0}}
|{{convert|605|Nm|lbft|abbr=on|0}}
|
|-
|rowspan="2"|Long Range
|rowspan="3" |77.4 kWh
|2WD
|{{convert|168|kW|PS hp|abbr=on|0}} at 4,600–9,200 rpm
|{{convert|350|Nm|lbft|abbr=on|0}} at 0–2,600 rpm
|7.3s
|rowspan="3"|32 hr 45 min
|rowspan="3"|7 hr 20 min
|rowspan="3"|1 hr 13 min
|-
|rowspan="2"|4WD
|{{convert|239|kW|PS hp|abbr=on|0}} at 6,800–9,200 rpm
|{{convert|605|Nm|lbft|abbr=on|0}} at 0–4,400 rpm
|5.2s
|-
|GT
|{{convert|430|kW|PS hp|abbr=on|0}} at 6,800–9,000 rpm
|{{convert|740|Nm|lbft|abbr=on|0}} at 0–4,200 rpm
|3.5s
|{{convert|260|km/h|mi/h|0|abbr=on}}
|}

== Markets ==

=== Europe ===
In May 2021, Kia obtained more than 33,000 prospects including 7,300 reservations across Europe since factory orders opened in late March 2021. First deliveries for the European market commenced in September 2021, it is available in standard, GT Line and GT derivatives.

=== North America ===
The EV6 was released in North America in January 2022. In the US, it comes in Light, Wind and GT Line trims. In Canada, it comes as a base model with the two-tier option of a GT Line package. It is available with either Standard Range and Long Range powertrains.

Manufacturing of most EV6 variants for the North American market is expected to move to Kia's West Point, Georgia assembly plant for the 2025 model year, with production expected to begin in early calendar year 2025. However, vehicles with the GT trim level will still be manufactured in Korea. This is expected to make the Georgia-made EV6 models eligible for the US federal EV tax credit. On Georgia-made vehicles, 2025 also swaps the CCS charging port for the Tesla-style NACS / SAE J3400 port and moves the charge port location from the rear passenger (right-hand) side to the rear driver (left-hand) side of the car.

=== Australasia ===

==== Australia ====
The EV6 went on sale in Australia on 25 February 2022, in three variants: Air, GT Line RWD and GT Line AWD; all variants use the Long Range powertrain. The high performance GT model debuted in January 2023.

==== New Zealand ====
The EV6 was launched in New Zealand on 30 March 2022, in three trim levels: Air, Earth and GT Line; it is available with either Standard Range and Long Range powertrains, with AWD dual-motor setup available on the two upper trim levels (optional on Earth, standard on GT Line). The high performance GT model debuted in March 2023.

=== Southeast Asia ===
The EV6 was launched in Malaysia on 24 June 2022, in Indonesia on 11 August 2022 at the 29th Gaikindo Indonesia International Auto Show with sales later commenced in December 2022, in Singapore on 23 November 2022, and in Philippines on 21 March 2023.

=== Mexico ===
The EV6 went on sale in Mexico in November 2023 and launched later on 7 December, in two variants: GT Line and GT; both using the Long Range powertrain.

== Awards ==
* 'Best of the Best' in 2022 Red Dot Design Awards
* 2022: European Car of the Year
* 2022: Irish Car of the Year
* 2022: ''What Car?'' Car of the Year
* 'Premium' winner in the German Car of the Year 2022 awards
* 'Crossover of the Year' at the ''TopGear.com'' 2021 awards
* Joint winner of the inaugural 'Best Cars of the Year' 2021/2022 awards
* Product Carbon Footprint certificate from United Kingdom's The Carbon Trust.
* 2023: the Indian Car of the Year (ICOTY) Green car awards
* 2023: North American Utility Vehicle of the Year
* 2023: ''MotorWeek'' Driver's Choice best of the year

=== EV6 GT ===
* 2023: the World Performance Car of the Year award

== Safety ==

=== Euro NCAP ===
{{Euro NCAP|year=2022|description=Kia EV6 Long Range AWD (LHD)|reference_name=Kia EV6 2022 Results|reference=https://cdn.euroncap.com/media/69374/euroncap-2022-kia-ev6-datasheet.pdf|adult_percent=90|child_percent=86|pedestrian_percent=64|safety_percent=87|overall_stars=5|adult_points=34.5|child_points=42.2|pedestrian_points=35.1|safety_points=14.0}}

=== IIHS ===
The 2022 EV6 became the third Kia vehicle to be awarded "Top Safety Pick+" by the IIHS, with a Good rating in six separate crash tests.
{| class="wikitable"
|+IIHS scores (2022)
|Small overlap front (driver)
| colspan="2" style="text-align:center;color:white;background:green" |Good
|-
|Small overlap front (passenger)
| colspan="2" style="text-align:center;color:white;background:green" |Good
|-
|Moderate overlap front (original test)
| colspan="2" style="text-align:center;color:white;background:green" |Good
|-
|Side (original test)
| colspan="2" style="text-align:center;color:white;background:green" |Good
|-
|Roof strength
| colspan="2" style="text-align:center;color:white;background:green" |Good
|-
|Head restraints and seats
| colspan="2" style="text-align:center;color:white;background:green" |Good
|-
|Headlights (varies by trim/option)
| colspan="1" style="text-align:center;color:white;background:green" |Good
| colspan="1" style="text-align:center;color:black;background:red" |Poor
|-
|Front crash prevention: vehicle-to-vehicle
| colspan="2" style="text-align:center;color:white;background:green" |Superior
|-
|Front crash prevention: vehicle-to-pedestrian (Day)
| colspan="2" style="text-align:center;color:white;background:green" |Superior
|}

== Sales ==
{|class="wikitable"
|-
! Calendar
year
! U.S
! South Korea
!Europe
!Global
|-
|2021
|
|11,053
|8,026
|29,512
|-
| 2022
| 20,498
|24,852
|26,658
|83,411
|-
| 2023
| 18,879
| 17,227
|36,087
|96,092
|-
|2024
|21,715
|9,054
|24,323
|51,542
|}
